Remember,
please hit like and subscribe for me.
Thank you so much. Okay, let's go. Hi
everyone. Today is Tuesday, January the
6th, and this is the Moneyball Morning
Report for the Benzinga Pro platform.
Today is my last [snorts] full day in
Japan. Tomorrow we will not have a video
and hopefully my eyes won't be crossed
and I'll be able to do something for us
on Thursday morning. All right, let's
take a look at the E- Mini S&P. We are
looking at charts by Trendpider and
Gamma Flows by Menthro Q. Looking at the
trading day that we just had for Monday.
It was quite bullish. broke straight
through this formation. Take [snorts] a
note at the relative
higher lows that gave us this
opportunity that said, "Listen, if we
break out above this 6925,
then we've got ourselves 6940,
6950,
and then moving further up into what is
now a new zerodte demo wall of 6960.
The call wall still sits above us at
7,000. It was 710
730. Let's see where that is. Yes, it
was 7:30 and these have now been
replaced with general gamma lines. And
so we can see that price action is
coming in towards the end of the month.
Could we look at this and say, you know,
this looks like a topping formation? We
could. However, as long as we hold the
floor at 6940, our dips are going to be
buy zones. So, the line in the sand for
bullish pressure should be the bounce
off of 6940 into 6960. Once we lose that
frame
here, which it looks like we are trying
to head to the point of control and the
anchored VWAP of the prior day. [snorts]
Once we get to that spot, if we lose it,
we should could easily see a rotation of
equal size downward. And that sends us
back to the VWAP at around 6918
with a pretty interesting spot at our
6925.
So, how do you want to trade this? Well,
we have downward flow that's occurring
right now, right? This is what do we
have? 5:03 p.m. Tokyo time. So, it's
3:00 a.m.
So, this is uh Europe
right here. That is um doing whatever
it's doing. And so, we'll watch this
fade, pull back into the support zone.
That should be the first buy point. If
you're staring it down for really tight
time frame analysis, you'll notice this
um indicator
is called, let me show you this
indicator.
This is a really interesting indicator.
Let me see if I can find it. Sorry,
operator error here with my fingers.
Come along, Sally.
Fractal support.
This fractal support shows aggressive
price action that moves initially off of
a range. And so there are a lot of
different ways to trade that, but this
is actually telling us that this is
swift volume and bigger size comparative
to the rest of the motion. We've uh
here's a moving average that we've
broken through. Um
or is this the VWAP?
Let's see. No, this is the VWAP. Excuse
me. The broken average. Here we have
come down through the VWAP. So we should
see price action try to hold again these
interesting edges that are showing up.
6950 was a key level. So we would expect
the traders trying to bounce here. When
we when we see this great big aggressive
type of motion, we tend to see a
reflexive bounce, but if it does not get
up over the prior resistance zone, we
have continuation to the downside.
That's a really nice tool that you can
find in Trendpider. And I love being
able to highlight these tools. They're
so fun and they always bring stuff, new
stuff out all the time. So, what are the
call walls that we are concerned with?
As I mentioned,
above us, topping formation potentially
and the call wall now down at 7,000. The
put support, the put wall is at 6,900.
So, it's moved up quite a bit, but the
zero DTE is much wider below. So there
are a few folks that are using these
zerodtees on the put side to say, hey,
there's a potential for reflexive action
downward. That seems very interesting to
me at first pass. So let's see what this
trend line will hold. Looks like it
could easily come into that same space
where we're thinking there's a buy zone.
So that's rounded about 6940 or so.
Okay, dips or buys, sideways pressure,
looking at the 4our,
we are sitting in a zone that is still
very congested, but we're still making
higher lows underneath. And so, as we're
still making those higher lows, we
expect that any deep dips are going to
find buyers in the near term. My thought
is look for anywhere from 6900 to 6910
to 6925 to give you your stop points.
and on the way up 6960
and then [snorts] 6985
into the 7,000 zone. Let's take a look
at the ENQ.
All right, from the 4hour chart, we're
seeing the same sort of thing. the chart
is really trying to hold a framework of
pressure moving upside and so we're
still seeing this buy the dip sort of
space that the prices could be sitting
in essentially right we've got support
deep below that's the one day min 25,300
we've got the zero DTE put wall
at 25,500
put support still down there at 24,000
and the call wall is the same as the
zero DTE wall call wall and that looks
like it's about 29 25,700.
So that's a really mixed back. Could be
choppy trading dip buying still the
frame of reference, right? We have to
shift the angle now because you can see
that that buying pressure has slowed
down a bit. The angle at which it was
moving is slowing. We've also got now a
new set of lower highs off of this
framework here. Let's shift it up a bit.
Right.
So, we can see that downward flow is
significant. Right. It is certainly it's
certainly meaningful, but we're building
some sort of wedge for sure. Where is
the base of that wedge right now?
Listen, the first edge that they might
come into is 25,600.
That's a big fat round number. They
could easily try and buy that one up,
but the accumulation of inventory if it
loses that 20 25,600,
let's draw the line right there.
If it loses that zone,
25,550
looks like the next move. And so that
that's my thought. Let's see if it
measured it on the upside. Yes, it did.
Right. It moved up one to one, up a
little bit, and then moved back down.
So, let's clone it one more time to see
where it might go on the bottom
for the lower edges. And that gives us a
zero DTE port wall at about 25,500.
What are we staring at? Momentum is
steeply down right now with this selloff
here. Let's see if it's the same sort of
aggressive price action. Yes. Should
come in old resistance, new support. So
that 25,600
needs to hold for a reflexive bounce. If
it gets above 25,640,
then you have a potential upshot. But at
this juncture, I would literally try to
start trimming my gains right up here at
this high volume event at 640. If you
try to buy 25,600,
right? Stop action
590, right? And legitimately
it looks like 605 might be 25,605
might be that buying zone essentially.
Right? So that's what we're staring
down. This fade in the formation. We can
see these candlesticks bring us down
into the opening tick which is 25,600.
Excuse me. the high of the first 30
minute candlestick
um is literally right here at 25,600. So
it's it seems likely to me that they'll
want to test that line.
And you know that's our that's our box
that we stare down. Okay. So we look at
the 30-inut chart. We can see the
formation 30 minute high 30 minute low
for the opening framework. A lot of
buyers should be sitting at or near
25,600
this morning. And if they don't, we know
that there's trouble ahead for the
downside rotations. Okay. All right.
Let's take a look at Bitcoin.
What a massive move up, right? Massive
move up. Call walls. Oh my goodness.
They've gotten themselves on the back
foot again. Look at this. Put support
way up here.
well above price. Zero DTE
for the put side also well above price.
That means
you know uh these guys are underwater.
Well, the zero DTE is not but the put
support one is the call wall they are
doing okay just so long as they resist
this 95,000
but the that's the zeroDT call wall. The
big call wall is down at 90,000. And so,
like I say all the time, just
it's not even worth it to look at these
call walls because the players here are
not sophisticated and they get
themselves on the back foot all the
time. So, what are we seeing from a
structural perspective? Resistance at
95,000,
support at 85,000. So, there's a $10,000
range that Bitcoin has literally been
sitting in since
November the 17th, right? So, about a
month and a half, we've been sitting in
this pocket sideways.
Do I think the run up here is a little
geopolitical? Yes.
But then again, you know, I'm not going
to plant a flag on that one, right? I I
just do not I I don't um I don't see how
they're positioning other than this
notion that there's going to be some
sort of liquidity event driving into the
markets that's going to give us this
bounce. And I I I'm not converging on
those spaces. So, my suspicion is that
this is a pretty solid sell zone. That
being the case, all of this price action
is very bullish. And so dips are going
to have to be buy zones until there is a
failed breakdown.
Excuse me, a failed breakout. And so
what did we see? This is a big bounce.
And now we are back down underneath
94,360.
The next line of support is going to be
92,720,
but just below that is a low volume
formation in the volume profile. So that
makes for pretty sticky pricing. If it
loses this edge for one
minute on some solid volume, it's going
to collapse all the way down
into, you know, this 91,200 area,
statistically speaking. So, what are we
seeing? Momentum is negative and jagged.
We're sitting under the moving average.
We're sitting under the VWAP. We're
sitting in formations that are giving us
lower highs
and lower lows.
inventory accumulation. We just lost a
region and that region is
93,9
uh900 all the way to 94,600.
If we clone that, we get a probable
downside target that's sitting right at
the open of this aggressive bullish
candlestick formation. So, I think it's
worthwhile looking at that 93,200 area.
What could you do to trade that? Look
for the failed bounce into 94,000
and then take the trade down into the
93,000. It is pretty choppy here. Look
at how jagged the momentum triggers are.
Very, very jagged. Watch for that. The
line in the sand in my mind between the
buyers and sellers somewhere around
93,000
which is the base of this edge. What is
this line here? Ah, that is a gamma
line. So, the base of this gamma line,00
seems to be co coinciding with the
relative price formations here. Bounces
are clearly looking like sell zones at
this juncture and the big picture
suggests to me that this is a topping
formation, right? So, I would not be
surprised to see it come back all the
way down to 90,000. All right, let's
take a look at
silver
si.
As I mentioned, the line in the sand for
silver was 75. It if it got up over 75,
it was going to run. And boy has it,
right? This is really solid updraft.
There are still a lot of options that
are sitting at the 8085
um there's a call spread that's the 8085
call spread that is still very active in
the SLV contract
dips clearly by zones breakaway
formations
are actually in play right now so let's
go to the 30inut chart the call wall
is at 80 so it's moved back up the zero
Z DTE call wall is at 7750
trading above that right now and the
zero DTE put wall is at 7430. Now notice
what we have going on. Very
straightforward.
This is a very straightforward
formation.
That is an upside channel here. They
broke the channel came right back up
into the space. Here's what we have to
notice about silver.
These
uh candlesticks that show aggressive
buying or aggressive selling in the
silver space, they come all over.
So, one thing we have to remember is
positioning properly in silver is the
key thing to watch. And the better bets,
the stronger trades will come from the
30 minute charts or higher where old
resistance is now support.
Old resistance is now support. That's
the best way to trade these on the
bigger time frame and just wait for the
trade because it's been working like
clockwork. It's when you go to the much
tighter time frames that things start
getting squirly and you get caught in
these weird candlestick formations that
don't feel very good when you're trading
them for sure.
All right. Um so what are we looking
for? Dips or buys? This I believe
continues to be a geopolitical move. The
next higher levels are going to be at
that 80 to the gamma line at nine is 82.
So we'll see how that moves. I would
expect see notice the speed. See how
quickly this moved from
70 to 77 and how quickly it moved down
from 77
to 70. And now it's this undulating
pattern. Look at how many more days it
takes 1 day to move from 70 to 77 that's
like 10%. Now for it to move 10% it's
taking several days and this is what the
CME has tried to do slow down the
feverish pace of the motion and they do
that by increasing the margins. So that
if it starts getting parabolic again,
they're going to do the exact same
thing. Right now, nice undulating flows
moving all the way up. We'll see what
happens. But that is definitely a
bullish flow event. Dips or buys.
If it loses this edge here at 7750,
my thought would be 7550
would be the next area of frontline
support. All right, let's take a look at
oil.
My thought here, what happened in
trading this environment here is that
way too many people got short. Look at
the savage move. Savage moved down. Oh
my goodness, we're washing oil.
Remember, I took the long off of the
bounce and took it into resistance. Then
the sell-off and then another savage
move down. And these are everybody
clearing out all of those shorts. Just
shorts getting get getting squeezed all
the way to the top of the range. Top of
the range. 58
call walls and put walls are very far.
62 for the call wall
and 55 for the put wall. We are still
sideways. And so what do we expect to
see? potential downward flow back into
5687.
That's really what it is that I think
I'm seeing. Are we seeing any aggressive
flows on tighter time frames?
Not really. Um certainly nothing showing
positive motion. Anchor VWAP from the
prior trading day of Monday, $57.36.
And then below that old resistance, new
support at $57. That looks like a pretty
nice buy zone in my mind. That uh $57
looks
doable. Certainly certainly doable. Uh
so that's where I will be looking for
that. Now, if you decide, hey, I I'd
like to trade into that. Take a look at
what's going on in terms of inventory.
The inventory boxes are very jagged and
really kind of wide. So
I I would be very
very cautious around here. Here's the 1
hour formation on this uh midnight. So
that would have been 10 a.m. your time
on Monday. Here's our 50% line right
now. They're battling it here. If we
bounce and we cannot get above 5775,
losing that edge at 5764 could give us a
very nice short down into 5733 and then
again into the 57 area. So that's what I
would stare down. If I were to try and
build a box of inventory, it would be
that it's it's pretty messy, right? It's
somewhere around
to 5778.
Let me duplicate this and see if I've
got this measurement. Whoops.
Yeah, I've got that measurement about
right. Here's the one one. That's the
last area of inventory accumulation. And
so if I clone it once more, we'll be
able to see downside pressure. And that
downside pressure
gives us this uh support zone at around
5730 and then again at 5705 or so. So
yeah, I think that I'm I'm looking at
that correctly.
That that should be that motion in play.
All right, let's take a look at gold.
Gold is doing its thing. Holy cow. 45
um just running all the way back up.
Let's take a look at a 4hour formation.
This resistance zone here at 4500. Big
fat round number right
4500.
Pretty important space. We'll see how
the traders behave there. But the
stochastics are just about as high as
they can get.
So there's a lot of buying pressure here
that's pushing the price action up and
keeping it solid. The call wall is still
4516. We saw that on Sunday where it was
sitting there. Uh notice the put ZDT put
wall is 4535.
So they want price to get above that
zone.
A lot of speculation going on in here
watching these uh options do crazy
things where these flows are sitting
just bananas, right? There's a lot of
speculation in here. So, we also are
speculators. So, what we want to do is
make sure we understand the flow of
motion. And that is clearly bullish.
Dips are buy zones. It's slowing down a
little bit on the top as we get to 4500.
it could begin to stagnate within, you
know, a $50 sideways pressure event
between maybe $4450
to $4,500. That seems relatively
reasonable. If you're trying to figure
out where all the inventory accumulation
is,
I would venture to say resistance
pockets
somewhere around, right? at the match
resistance with support. And so this is
the box that I believe that they are
moving around. That's 4478 on the
upside, 4457 on the downside.
Let's clone it. See if it makes sense.
Yes, it does. It matches up there on the
breakout.
Oops. Let's leave it there. Let's clone
it one more time and move it to the
downside.
and see if it gives us any relative
pressure there. Your goal again is to
Yeah, that's right into the support zone
of 4440, which is what we stared down
for yesterday before yesterday's markets
opened up. Okay, that's what we're
staring down. Upside pressure. Here we
go. Right, dips or buys? I think a lot
of people are still sort of trying to
frontr run the January effect which they
believe is downside pressure and
they're, you know, they're getting
caught. But let's see how SPY did. Let's
go to SPY. Take a look at the
formations. What I believe I'm going to
do here is remove all the annotations
for SPY and let's just take a look at
what the broad formations are telling
us. call wall
693 $693.
The zero DT call wall is a little bit
before at $691. Put support
to 680 or so. That's where it's going.
It bounced off of that 2 days ago. It's
holding inside of the framework. What
are we looking at? Traders are still
buying the dip. As long as we are buying
the dip inside of these rotations, we
must think that the overall motion of
the market is going to grind to the
north. What is not happening that we
should be concerned about is brand new
highs in SPY. And so that's the only fly
in the ointment that says, hey, listen,
you know, here was this double top
brought us down into heavy congestion.
Now we're bouncing again. A shallow
pullback should take us here easily. And
if the price action is going to move to
the north, that's when we'll see the
breakaway formation. And there are a lot
of traders looking at that breakaway
formation. Here is a Fibonacci that
points to that upside break. Here's the
50% area at 681. That's about where we
bounced. $2 or so began to recover it.
So, this 50% move does suggest that
we've got motion that could easily send
us to 700 before we rotate down in some
sort of January effect. Everything feels
very different this season. And so, uh
it could be that the short the the
shorts are on uh the back foot one more
time, right? And we have to look for
that. So, what are we staring down here?
We have a little bit of a topping
formation
690 to 687
or so. If we lose 687,
we're very likely to step down into the
support zones near 683.
Right? That's that seems to be where
it's at. But please remember, we have
dips that are buys. And so you you're
going to watch for a positive recovery
where you can go long or a failure to
recover which takes you to the bottom of
the range one more time. All right. So
that's what we're staring down. Overall,
we have bullish pressure under the
moving average, negative divergence,
but the trend is always going to be the
one that wins. So that means dips or
buys. They just could be a little bit
deeper. and we're getting to be a little
newsy in how things are turning out. So,
we really got to be careful there. All
right, folks. That's it for me. I'll see
you on Thursday. Take care and watch
your risk.